What do you look forward to? As one of Jehovah's Witnesses, you look forward to perfection.
You look forward to eternal life in a beautiful paradise earth.
However, with all of this wonderful future before us, what about in the meantime?
We suffer from crime. We suffer from natural disasters.
This pandemic we suffer from, sickness, poverty, war, and other calamities.
In fact, as the Scriptures mention in Romans, all creation keeps on groaning together.
So the question comes up and this is something we want you to reflect on.
It's a thought-provoking question.
Should the rest of our days in this wicked system of things be defined by grief?
No. Absolutely not.
We don't want the remainder of our time to be controlled by all the problems in the grief that mankind is suffering.
Jehovah wants us, even during these times, to enjoy our lives while we wait for the fulfillment of his prophecies and his promises to us.
Now, we're going to establish that for you scripturally, even though hardship defaults us before the Great Tribulation and during the Great Tribulation.
Notice this scriptural counsel found in the Bible book of Habakkuk, Habakkuk chapter 3, and we're going to read verses 17 and 18.
Although the fig tree may not blossom, and there may be no fruit on the vines, although the olive crop may fail, and the fields may produce no food.
Although the flock may disappear from the pen, and there may be no cattle in the stalls.
See, dire circumstances don't you agree?
But notice verse 18, yet as for me, I will exalt in Jehovah, I will be joyful in the God of my salvation.
See, even during these dire circumstances, he was able to say, with all of this going on as for me, I will exalt in Jehovah.
And I hope I can. I will exalt in Jehovah. I will be joyful in the God of my salvation.
So it's really his close friendship with Jehovah God that enables him to still have joy.
And that's the theme of this talk, close friendship with Jehovah brings the greatest joy.
So while we're waiting patiently, Jehovah wants us to rejoice.
The world couldn't understand that reasoning, but that's what Jehovah wants for his people.
It's just a wonderful promise for us to focus on.
Now, the psalmist helps us to appreciate that this isn't just some dream, to have a close friendship with the sovereign of the universe, the Almighty God.
Now, notice here in Psalm 25, so we read that together, Psalm 25, and this is a scriptural assurance.
Notice verse 14, close friendship with Jehovah belongs to those who fear him, and he makes his covenant known to them.
That beautiful, close friendship with Jehovah.
It's possible. It's a reality. He teaches us. And we're not just dreaming when we speak about having this close friendship with Jehovah God.
It's a wonderful, wonderful reality that we enjoy, and it brings such joy to have this closeness with Jehovah God.
Now, what helps with this, and be able to make sure we have this close friendship, it comes to acquiring the mental disposition of Jesus.
No one's ever been closer to Jehovah than Jesus, prehuman existence, during his earthly ministry, and upon his resurrection, so close to Jehovah.
So, for us to really capture how we can have a close friendship with Jehovah, we need to learn to think and feel like Jesus did and still does.
So, when we imitate his example, it increases our joy.
So, in this talk, we're going to discuss two aspects of Jesus' mental disposition.
The first aspect is how Jesus showed on selfish love, and that drew him close to his father, he found absolute joy in showing neighbor love, and doing good to others.
Now, notice this artwork here, please.
Jesus gave from his heart, unselfishly.
Imagine Jesus' feelings when he met someone who needed help.
You see, Jesus and the joy of helping others, it's just very evident, and the closeness with his father, they could see it, the disciples rejoiced, what a perfect example of being close to Jehovah in the result, joy, say.
So, that's what we want to keep in mind, and Jesus said that example for us.
Now, by being generous, Jesus taught us what he did, practiced what he preached and taught.
Notice here in Luke chapter 6, and we learn because he lived this.
He had such freeness of speech to make these things clear to those that listened to him.
Luke chapter 6, and talk about being generous, Jesus obviously was, but notice verse 38 of Luke chapter 6, practice giving, and people will give to you.
They will pour into your laps of fine measure, press down, shaken together, and overflowing.
For the measure that you are measuring out, they will measure out to you in return.
So, beautiful lesson here, be generous.
Jesus was so generous with his time, and all the things he did with his disciples, and the lesson being the measure you show in the way of being generous, it comes in return.
So, sometimes people in the world, they have stated things I know I heard these things when I first became one of Jehovah's Witnesses,
you people, you don't celebrate holidays, you're stingy. Nothing could be further from the truth.
We don't celebrate holidays that offend our God, the one we love and worship.
So, just because we don't celebrate these holidays where there's gift giving, doesn't mean we're not generous.
We're happy to give gifts. We enjoy giving, because that's what Jehovah wants us to do.
We look for opportunities to be generous. Now, along with keeping your Bibles here at Luke chapter 6, we need to be patient with each other.
Some things we're going to discuss here, I need to apply the counsel and we're passing this on for your benefit.
Some things to think about, and if you see an area where you need to make improvement, well then by all means do so.
That'll keep you close to Jehovah and having the abundant great joy as a result of applying his counsel.
Verse 37, right before verse 38, notice, moreover, stop judging and you will by no means be judged,
and stop condemning and you'll by no means be condemned. Keep on forgiving and you will be forgiven.
So, very priceless counsel on the need to be forgiving, Jehovah and Jesus certainly are.
You'll also notice in verse 37, stated, stop judging to stop it. He didn't say don't judge.
He said, stop judging. Why? Because that's in perfect human inclination to judge, to judge others.
Sometimes even in the congregation, some can become overly critical, they can become resentful,
envious, and envy is so destructive, somebody might have materialistic prosperity, they might
enjoy privileges that you don't have in the congregation, others might find them very endearing,
so envy can creep in. And frankly, it's unhealthy physically and spiritually.
That's what I mean by that, with this proverb, fine proverbs, if you would please, and inspired
counsel is very, very clear. Proverbs 14 and the 30th verse,
a calm heart gives life to the body, you don't know what it is, but jealousy or envy, these
are things, is rottenness to the bones. If your bones are rotten and the bone is so important,
all the bones in our body, toward good physical health, same thing spiritually,
if we're jealous, it's rotten to us in a spiritual way as well. See, things that
Jehovah doesn't feel he would be one close friendship with somebody that has this issue and
doesn't work on it, doesn't work to correct it. So when we work on thinking about some of these
things, we can actually personally increase the joy in our congregation, and that takes us to
another scriptural thought that we want to address here in this talk about having a close
friendship with Jehovah. Notice 1st Peter, chapter 4, and you'll remember this verse, most of you
listening 1st Peter, chapter 4, and verse 15, 1st Peter, 4, 15. However, let none of you suffer as
a murderer or a thief or a wrongdoer. Now notice, or a busy body in other people's matters.
So obviously, murder and a thief, these are terrible sins against Jehovah God, but right after
that, he mentions a busy body. Now, literally in the original language, this has always helped me
with his inspired thought, a busy body literally overseer in what is another's.
What does that tell you? Well, if it's not your responsibility to oversee this particular issue,
then you could keep in mind the need, mine your own business. The scriptures are against busy bodies.
They disturb the peace of congregations, they interfere with the congregations and join the joy.
So we refrain from imposing our uninspired opinions on others, or debating about matters of personal
choice. You have some concerns, talk to Jehovah God about it, but if it's a personal concern,
don't be a busy body. The scriptures are very clear, stay away from that, and developing this
negative spirit that could disrupt the peace of the congregation. Now, as you watch the following
video, notice how our sister worked at becoming more positive, and by doing so, she increased her joy.
I've had a lifelong struggle with a negative attitude. My negative disposition made me a very
impatient, sarcastic, and demanding person. One day, out in Phil's service, I had insulted a
partner of mine, and the entire day was ruined. My mother was in the car. She was very upset with the
situation. She told me that I had a negative attitude, and that I was not allowed inside the house
until that sister forgave me. So I asked the sister a lunch. It was one of the most difficult and
uncomfortable situations I have been in. I realized that I needed to make a self-examination.
Why was I negative? Why was I so unhappy? It was because I stopped pioneering,
and my friends continued in their full-time service to Jehovah, and that made me very frustrated
to see them continue this while I was stuck. But when I acknowledged that I had this negative
attitude that prompted me to beg Jehovah to help me to make changes, the friends in the
congregation that I spent a lot of time with were not bad people, and their imperfection
fueled my negative attitude, and I really had to put that fire out.
Personal studies was a major help with my prayer to Jehovah to make these changes.
One of the things I meditated on was how it just acted with his disciples.
When he was hungry and he was tired, he was still very loving and kind.
So I saw for myself when I was spiritually hungry how that affected my words and my actions
towards the brothers and sisters. The keys to maintaining Jesus' mental disposition are prayer,
gratitude, and contentment. My goal is to show a grateful attitude for the blessings that I receive
every day, and also to look for the good in people, to show them that I care and I love them,
and I've learned the more that I give to the friends into my family, the happier that makes Jehovah,
as Acts 2035 and Hebrews 1316 mentioned. And when Jehovah is happy, that really makes me happy.
Very thought-provoking video, don't you agree? Now you'll notice what lessons she'd learned,
and we all benefit from it. Prayer, gratitude, contentment. Beautiful, that you could see that.
And when you have the prayer coupled with gratitude, and then you show and display contentment,
you stay close to Jehovah, and that brings great joy because we apply the counsel.
Now the second that we're going to discuss in this talk is using practical wisdom
increases our joy. So we made it clear that we want to show on Self-East Love as Jesus did.
Now we're talking about practical wisdom and how that increases our joy. Jesus knew how important
this counsel was. He taught His disciples that when it comes up to treasures, you know,
store up treasures in heaven. See, because where your heart is, and your treasure is,
that's where your heart's going to be. So he made that very clear, trying to help him appreciate
a little practical, simple life. Now notice here in this artwork how Jesus is showing His disciples
and how much joy they have applying that counsel about keeping it simple.
Jesus knew that storing up treasures in heaven brings joy.
Imagine the joy Jesus found in sharing life's simple pleasures with others.
So they enjoyed their surroundings there, rejoicing. Nobody's comparing who has
certain amount of gold. No, this is just enjoying life because of their close relationship
with Jehovah God. Now by keeping our life simple, we trust that Jehovah will provide for our needs
and something I've said for years. Remember, Jehovah provides for our needs,
not our grids. So if we're content with the needs Jehovah provides for us, we can experience
great joy. Well, avoid distractions that could take us away from wholeheartedly serving our
heavenly Father or even start to distance us from Him. The Bible is filled with practical wisdom
about physical health, finances, family life, and when this counsel is applied it can, in many
cases, prevent problems, at least minimize them even in these difficult last days.
And the Scriptures are very clear that when we really peer into Jehovah's Word and
it's referred to in the Bible Book of James as a mirror, here's the benefit now. You'll remember
this in James chapter 1 and how much we appreciate the wisdom that is found here in James chapter 1
and verse 25, James 1, 25. But the one who peers into the perfect law that belongs to freedom
and continues in it has become not a forgetful here, but a doer of the Word and He will be happy
in what He does. So when we take the time to look into Jehovah's Word, peer in, it's not just a
glance, we're peering into the perfect law, then we continue in it. We don't read it and say,
oh, that was interesting and then go off and forget it. No, a doer of the Word. That means there's
application of what we just read. And the result, we will be happy, guaranteed. That's what
Jehovah promises. So, but it has to be applied to have this benefit. Now, there's a beautiful
proverb and this gets personal for all of us too. I need to apply it just like all of you listening,
need to do likewise, Proverbs chapter 15. And this can happen, especially in these critical
last days that are continuing to get worse and worse. But I've always loved this proverb,
and it's helped me for decades. And I think many of you agree that it's helped you. And if
not, then benefit from the wisdom here of Proverbs 15. And let's read verse 15. All the days of the
afflicted one are bad. But the one with a cheerful heart has a continual feast. Now, we have to
let that sink in all the days. So this means day after day, this negative attitude, poor me,
poor me, one affliction after the other, like the sister in the video we saw earlier,
just absorbed with negative things. But then it's contrasted with having a cheerful heart.
And it's like having a feast. So, mentally and emotionally, we're going to benefit from not
needlessly focusing on the afflictions and the things that we deal with. That connects with
the earlier we talked about prayer, gratitude, and contentment. So agonizing over problems
that are beyond our control does not please God. We do the best we can with our circumstances.
But to be daily afflicted and agonizing over these things that really are no control over,
we do the best we can to resolve our problems. But try to focus on the more productive things.
What can we do? What are the positive things? And this isn't just some psychological endeavor.
This is scriptural direction. Scriptural advice. And when applied, it really works.
Say, Jehovah blesses our efforts. And if you think about it, especially to some older now,
and I can relate to it, some of you older ones, just keep in mind, just because you're tired
doesn't mean you don't love Jehovah that you're not close to him. Things have changed.
So keep your close friendship with him and don't dwell on the afflictions of being elderly.
Not healthy, spiritually or physically, Jehovah will help us to get through those times.
Now, what will help too is to take the thinking down another path. And there's a Psalm here that
I'm going to share with you, Psalm 77. So if you'll find Psalm 77. And this is some more beautiful,
inspired advice. Psalm 77. And here in the 12th verse, and I will meditate on all your activity
and ponder over your dealings. So again, another one of those verses were to pause,
think about it. Are you talking about the times we're living in? So we must meditate on Jehovah's
activity. We'll come back to that in a moment, but ponder over your dealings. So what would that
might have been? Well, Jehovah, how does he deal with his servants? How does he deal with us?
He's kind. And don't you love being around somebody that's reasonable and kind.
And the way they deal with others, they're kind. When they're that way, they're really
imitating how close they are to Jehovah because he's kind when he deals with us. And we're so
grateful for that. And talking about meditating on the activity, we'll think about the creation.
And what Jehovah's done with the creation, people that accept evolution, they couldn't do such.
They couldn't find any benefit from because they don't believe in creation. All of this just happened.
Not so for us. When we look at the creation, something is simple and this does make
Jehovah happen when we do it. A beautiful flower or a bouquet of flowers. You know, sometimes
as the world, they start these businesses and they have these fake flowers. Some of them look
pretty good, but compared to a real flower, I've seen some make these roses that look pretty
good, but I don't smell what I smell with a real rose. The whole thing with a beautiful rose,
it just makes you reflect on the creator. And something that's always been a treasure for me is
when you can capture a beautiful sunset. It might be a sunrise or it might be a sunset,
but it just causes people to go wow. And some of them stop and think about God, whether they don't
believe in Him or not, it just stuns them. And shortly after we had moved here to the headquarters
in Warwick, I remember in just a few days after being here, we had some rain and such, but then
and they took a picture. I've had a beautiful rainbow that I took a picture of with my tablet.
How can you not feel good and refreshed by looking at such activity of Jehovah God?
Beautiful, beautiful rainbow. And then there's the antics of animals. I love dogs, I love puppies and
kittens, the things they do and sometimes they're able to capture them on video. It's just
causes joy in the heart. So find joy more in all of the creation of them, but most of all,
find joy in your relationship with Jehovah God. Now with that in mind, notice how our brother
uses practical wisdom in the following video. I had a stable job at a local resort, but I later lost
this job. I tried to look for work, but I was unsuccessful. My savings ran out. We had run out of
money to buy a gas for cooking. It felt like my world had ended. I did some research in
publications. I found that I was able to follow the example of some brothers who had found that
they were able to start businesses using these skins and abilities that they had. I was able to
use a fishing net that I owned by going down to the sea, down to the river, put the net out in the
evening. Early in the morning I would go down and be able to find fish and crabs on the net.
It was not easy. I did not always get a good catch, but by doing this,
eventually I was able to support my family during that time. We had to cook outside on a fire.
I thought about how I could help my family to stay positive. We would sit together and
we would sing kingdom songs, play games together, and I feel that Jehovah blessed the efforts that I
made. He brews 13 verse 5, that scripture reassured me that as long as I didn't compromise the
important aspects of Jehovah's worship, my family's needs were cared for. I have always admired the
beauty and power of the sea. It reminds me that the one who created the sea, it's not hard for him
to care for just one small human like me. Nice application of the council, I have practical wisdom
and the benefits. Now I encourage you to keep in mind what we discussed here, showing the
neighbor love that Jesus showed and the joy he experienced from that, and then the practical wisdom
that Jesus taught us about, so that we stay close to Jehovah and not get distracted with things
that the world's absorbed with. Now to help us completely capture this mental inclination of Jesus,
especially in the days ahead, I want you to find Romans, excuse me, Hebrews chapter 12,
and many know this verse, they've benefited, but it certainly applies to our
discussion about a close friendship with Jehovah bringing great joy. Hebrews chapter 12,
and you'll notice here verse 2, as we look intently at the chief agent and perfecter of our faith
Jesus. For the joy that was said before him, he endured a torture stake, despising shame and has
sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Beautiful council, and this is what we need to do.
See, look intently at the chief agent, Christ Jesus, and when you're looking at something intently,
that means you're looking away from everything else. You're focused. Look intently at these last days
at the chief agent, Jesus. Now, what we learned, because you think about what he went through, the
torture stake is mentioned here, even that three and a half year ministry with those hypocrites,
those religious hypocrites attacking him with their lies and slander, and then those final days
of assertly life, and especially those final hours, and then those hours on the torture stake,
and he knew what was coming, the details. How does a man deal with that without collapsing?
Well, we're not left to wonder for the joy that was said before him, he endured all that.
So Jesus had the prehuman existence, the joy of sitting with his father again in the heavens,
oh my, it got him through it. Same for us brothers, the joy will give us through it. The joy of
staying close with our God. And finally, this last verse for this closing talk here, Romans
chapter 12, two sentences from this 12th verse here, Romans 12, 12, and take this to heart, rejoice
in the hope, endure under tribulation. So while waiting for the fulfillment of all of Jehovah's
promises and the things that we have to deal with, remember how Jesus dealt with it, just
cling to Jehovah, have that close relationship with him, and you will experience the greatest joy.